Add upgrade strategy document (#422)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs/js/announcing-version-2.mdx

---
title: SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript 2.x - Announce New Major Release
sidebar_label: Announcing Version 2.x
keywords:
  - sap
  - cloud
  - sdk
  - cloud native
  - cloud sdk
  - sap cloud sdk
  - version 2
  - announcement
  - upgrade
  - migration
---

:::info relevance

This announcement only applies to the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript.
It is not relevant for the SAP Cloud SDK for Java.

:::

> # Announcing Version 2.x for the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript

Reviewer: I think it would look nicer in the documentation if there was no additional heading here. There is no additional information in this title and I would always avoid two headings in a row (even though there is the info thingy on top).
```suggestion
```

The SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript was initially released over 2 years ago in March 2019.
Since then, we have collected ideas that will help speed up development and introduce valuable features but require breaking changes.
We outline our plans regarding the SAP Cloud SDK version 2.x in this document.

## Abstract

> - We will release a new major version every 6 to 12 months with version 2.x expected in January 2022

Reviewer 2: A few things need to be moved to the policy document I guess. I would also link the document here in the beginning with something like: `Our general release strategy can be found....`

Reviewer: I think we should just remove this "Abstract" as it only contains duplicate information from the general policy.

- We will ensure that upgrading will take minimal effort and provide a step-by-step guide
- We will provide fixes and new features only for the most current version of the SAP Cloud SDK after it's released GA.

## What Will Happen?

Our mission is to help you develop cloud-based apps and extensions to SAP solutions.
So far, we have always stayed backward compatible to avoid migration efforts for you.
This has been the right strategy until now, but some past decisions are slowing or preventing progress.
Making these changes will have many benefits for the usability of the SAP Cloud SDK and our development speed.

> With this document, we want to share our plans regarding timeline, content, and support.

Reviewer: I think after this sentence could be a good place to link the policy.

Following our mission, we want to make upgrading as easy as possible.
Please [reach out to us](https://github.com/SAP/cloud-sdk-js/discussions/1518) with your feedback, suggestions, or improvement ideas.

## Timeline for the Version 2.x

The planned timeline looks as follows:

1. September/October: Start of development
2. November: Publish beta versions and start of feedback cycle
3. December: Publish release candidate
4. January 2022: Release of SAP Cloud SDK 2.0.0

- We will continuously publish beta versions and would appreciate feedback from early adopters.
- Constructive suggestions will be included in the ongoing beta releases.
- Once the [scope of version 2.x](#what-will-change-in-version-2) is implemented, a release candidate will be published for end-to-end evaluation.
- The final release will happen after the evaluation of the release candidate is completed.

During development time, we may postpone changes that have a workaround in version 1.x or are not time-critical.
Important and time-critical issues will be resolved within our usual SLA.

We will regularly release new major versions aiming for a 6 to 12 months release cycle.

> Between major releases, we will continue with a biweekly release cycle to deliver minor version updates with non-breaking changes.

Reviewer: This can also be removed.

## What Will Change in Version 2?

The planned list of changes is:

### Replace `Moment.js` With a Flexible Middleware Approach for Deserialization

`Moment.js` used to be somewhat of a standard for JavaScript date handling, but is now in [maintenance mode](https://www.npmjs.com/package/moment#project-status).
It is also a rather large dependency and not optimized for tree shaking.
We will remove the direct dependency to `Moment.js` and allow you to choose a middleware that suits your project.

> We will provide a few popular options including a `Moment.js` - based middleware for the easiest possible migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will provide a few popular options including a `Moment.js` - based middleware for the easiest possible upgrade.
```

This gives you flexibility while reducing package size dramatically.

### Split Packages and Export Only the Public Interface

The SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript exports many functions that are used across our packages, but are not supposed to be part of the public interface.
We will clean up these exports and are expecting a better experience when using IntelliSense or similar auto-completion tools.

> As long as you don't use undocumented methods, this change should not need any migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As long as you don't use undocumented methods, this change should not need any changes on your side.
```

### Increase Compilation Target to ECMAScript 2019

We are currently compiling to meet the ECMAScript 5 standard.
This is not needed anymore as `Node.js` fully supports ECMAScript 2019 in both the Maintenance LTS (v12) and Active LTS (v14).
We expect a reduction in package size and a slight performance improvement.
No changes to your projects will be necessary unless it depends on ECMAScript 5 compatibility.

### Remove Deprecated Functionality

We marked outdated functionality as deprecated.
These functions will be removed during the major version increase.
We expect a minor reduction in package size.
If you still use a deprecated function, you should start replacing any occurrence with the proposed alternative as mentioned in the release notes.

## What Will the Upgrade Look Like?

Applying an upgrade is an additional effort.
We want to minimize this effort on the customer's side.
Our team will provide a detailed upgrade guide for each major release.
The guide will include step-by-step changes to resolve any incompatibilities.

> We aim at making migration possible within 1 day regardless of the project size.

Reviewer: Again, "migration" should be avoided.
```suggestion
Upgrading should be possible in less than a day regardless of the project size.
```

:::tip Looking For Feedback

To achieve this, we will need your feedback during the beta and release candidate phase.
Please let us know if you want to collaborate with us on finding problems and solutions for the upgrade guide.

:::

> You can always count on our [support and advice](../overview/support.mdx) with migration.

Reviewer: This sounds a bit weird and kind of duplicate (with a different tone) of the tip before. I would just leave it out, why make it longer than necessary...

> ## Will Old Major Versions Be Maintained?

Reviewer: This section belongs in the policy in my opinion.

---

> id: announcing-version-2

Reviewer 3: This can be skipped if file name is equal to the ID

title: Announcing Version 2 for the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript
sidebar_label: Announcing Version 2
keywords:
  - sap
  - cloud
  - sdk
  - cloud native
  - cloud sdk
  - sap cloud sdk
  - version 2
  - announcement
  - upgrade
  - migration
---

# Announcing Version 2 for the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript

The SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript was initially released over 2 years ago in March 2019.
Since then, we have collected ideas that will help speed up development and introduce valuable features, but require breaking changes.
We outline our plans regrading the SAP Cloud SDK version 2 and future major releases in this document.

:::info

> This upgrade strategy only applies to the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript and is not applicable to the SAP Cloud SDK for Java!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This upgrade only applies to the SAP Cloud SDK for JavaScript and is not applicable to the SAP Cloud SDK for Java!
```

:::

## Abstract

- We will release a new major version every 6 to 12 months with version 2 expected January 2022
- We will ensure that upgrading will take minimal effort and provide a step-by-step guide
- We will provide new fixes and features only for the most current version of the SAP Cloud SDK

## What Will Happen?

Our mission is to help you develop cloud-based apps and extensions to SAP solutions.

> So far, we always stayed backwards compatible to avoid migration efforts for you.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We have always stayed backward compatible to avoid migration efforts for you.
```

This has been the right strategy until now, but some past decisions are slowing or preventing progress.

> Making these changes will have many benefits for the usability of the SAP Cloud SDK and our development speed.

Reviewer 3: This sounds a bit like an excuse.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our decision to release the next major version is connected to unavoidable breaking changes we have to make to keep the SAP Cloud SDK fulfill its mission. 
```

Reviewer: @artemkovalyov What about this suggestion? I don't have a problem with the original version and I don't think it sounds like an excuse (so I would be fine keeping it). If you would like to change it, please take into consideration that in my opinion "we have to make to keep the SAP Cloud SDK fulfil its mission" sounds a bit too general and maybe you can include some of the points originally made by Florian.
(Also note that it should be fulfil with one "l" in the end, I also do that wrong all the time.)

With this document, we want to share our plans regarding timeline, content and support.
Following our mission, we want to make upgrading as easy as possible.

> Please [reach out to us](https://github.com/SAP/cloud-sdk-js/discussions/1518) if you have feedback, suggestions or improvements!

Reviewer 3: I'd put it to the end for the doc. Here it's too early for feedback.

## When Will This Happen?

The preliminary timeline looks as follows:

1. September/October: Start of development
2. November: Publish beta versions and start of feedback cycle
3. December: Publish release candidate
4. January 2022: Release of SAP Cloud SDK 2.0.0

> We will continuously publish beta versions and would appreciate feedback on these releases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We will continuously publish beta versions and would appreciate feedback from early adopters.
```

> This feedback will be included in later beta releases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We'll use this feedback to improve version 2.0 before releasing it as Generally Available.
```

Once all features are implemented, a release candidate will be published for end-to-end evaluation.
The final release will happen after the evaluation of the release candidate is completed.

During this time, we may postpone changes that have a workaround or are not time sensitive.
Important and time sensitive issues will, of course, be resolved within our usual response time.

We will continuously release new major versions aiming for a 6 to 12 months cycle.

> Between these major releases, we will continue with a biweekly release cycle to deliver non-breaking changes.

Reviewer 3: I'd link to our release strategy from here instead.

We expect a reduction in package size and a slight performance improvement.
No changes to your projects will be necessary unless it depends on ECMAScript 5 compatibility.

### Remove Deprecated Functionality

We marked outdated functionality as deprecated.
These functions will be removed during the major version increase.
We expect a minor reduction in package size.
If you still use a deprecated function, you should start replacing any occurrence with the proposed alternative as mentioned in the release notes.

## What Will the Upgrade Look Like?

Applying an upgrade is additional effort.
We want to minimize this.
Our team will provide a detailed upgrade guide for each major version release.
The guide will include step-by-step changes to resolve any incompatibilities.
Following these steps should be possible in less than a day, no matter the project size.

:::tip Looking For Feedback

To achieve this, we will need your feedback during beta and release candidate phase.
Please let us know if you want to collaborate with us on finding problems and solutions for the upgrade guide.

:::

> ## Will Old Major Versions Be Updated?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Will You Maintain Version 1.x?
```

We decided that we will not provide bug fixes or features for older versions.
The SAP Cloud SDK is an open source project and everyone is welcome to contribute, but we are a small team with limited time.
As more major versions are released, the complexity for maintenance and support increases dramatically.

Our team will provide bug fixes and features only in the newest version.
We recommend you upgrade early to get access to any new fixes and features.

> If something is not covered in our upgrade guide or otherwise prevents you from upgrading, we will happily support you to resolve that issue.

Reviewer 3: I think a link to the release strategy makes sense here.
